---
layout: post
author: Cody Merritt Anhorn
title: CSS - Using BEM
categories: [blog]
tags: [CSS, BEM]
---

BEM is more of a Methodologies than a Framework, you follow a small set of rules to help structure your CSS in a way that makes it easy to maintain. By following the rules that will be outlined in this article you will be able to better maintain a large CSS codebase.

> BEM — Block Element Modifier is a methodology that helps you to create reusable components and code sharing in front-end development

## Rules of BEM

As I find in most things in Web Development or Computer Science in general is naming things can be very difficult. And CSS is no different, by using BEM you are following a set of rules to help structure your rules for ease of use. BEM breaks up these rules into the three distinct area of Block, Element and Modifier, per the BEM.

### Block

I think of the Block area as the root of the element on the page. This can be though of as a section all its own, grouping the area as a place that can be lifted and shifted to any place and still hold its meaning.

**Naming**
> Block names may consist of Latin letters, digits, and dashes. To form a CSS class, add a short prefix for namespacing: ***.block***

**HTML**

~~~ html
<div class="block">Hello</div>
~~~

**CSS**
~~~ css
.block {
    color: green;
}
~~~

---

### Element

These are sections inside a block, they can be though of adding meaning to the block, and having none when not in the context of the block it should be part of.

**Naming**
> Element names may consist of Latin letters, digits, dashes and underscores. CSS class is formed as block name plus two underscores plus element name: ***.block__elem***

**HTML**

~~~ html
<div class="block">
    <span class="block__elem"></span>
</div>
~~~

**CSS**
~~~ css
.block__elem {
    color: red;
}
~~~

---

### Modifier

A modifier, like the element, should be part of a block, but can also be on elements. Using theme to change the appearance, behavior or state of the block or element is the main way the modifier is used.

**Naming**

> Modifier names may consist of Latin letters, digits, dashes and underscores. CSS class is formed as block’s or element’s name plus two dashes: **.block--mod** or **.block__elem--mod** and **.block--color-black** with **.block--color-red**. Spaces in complicated modifiers are replaced by dash.

**HTML**
~~~ html
<div class="block block--mod"></div>
<div class="block block--size-big block--shadow-yes"></div>
~~~

**CSS**
~~~ css
/* Use modifier class name as selector: */
.block--hidden {
    display: none;
}

/* To alter elements based on a block-level modifier: */
.block--mod .block__elem { 
    text-transform: uppercase;
}

/* Element modifier: */
.block__elem--mod {
    text-decoration: line-through;
 }
~~~

---

## Closing

As this article went over BEM is used to help wit the maintainability of large CSS project by following the three stated naming conventions. 

## References

***-*** <a href="http://getbem.com/" target="_blank">Get BEM Website</a>